# Core Team Meeting 2019-10-22

## Attendance

### Core team

Present: Heather Turner (HT), Emily Dodwell (ED), Lorna Maria Aine (LM), Tatjana Kecojevic (TK), Liz Hare (LH), Kevin O'Brien (KO), Noa Tamir (NT), Tania Allard (TA), Damiano Cerasuolo (DCerasuolo)  
Absent:  Jenny Bryan (JB), Jonathan Godfrey (JG), Isabella Gollini (IG), Julie Josse (JJ), Michael Lawrence (ML), Angela Li (AL), Shakirah Nakalungi (SN)

## Minutes

### Core team/General
- Samantha Toet has joined as a regular member of the Community Team (lead of R Consortium's R Community Diversity and Inclusion working group)
- HT may be going to conference celebrating 20th anniversary of release of R v1.0 -- Copenhagen in February 2020
    - Includes talk on diversity in the R community (not yet official), for which she invites ideas and feedback
    - As people are thinking about past, present, future of R community, this is a good opportunity to address community and challenge status quo by presenting ideas that are important to people

**ACTIONS**
- Keep us posted about upcoming events people are attending/leading/hosting so we can promote (tag JR so she can include on the website or put in #social_media channel):
    - Upcoming efforts with TK
    - NT workshop on programming from scratch, including introduction to bash (at a conference for women in business)

### Community team
- KO: Looking into YouTube live streaming for remote participants to join and ask questions - hopefully use for Cardiff SatRday.
    - Negative is you can't see slides. They may be shared separately via Github for access and readalong-type capability, although requires they be available in advance.
    - (see slack for remarks)
- DCerasuolo: Looking into funding for conferences.
    - Speaking with Francesca for eRum in Milan May 2020
    - (HT) QueerinAI has funding that may be used for event by end of the year (i.e. Meetup, conference, joint meeting)
- TA organized Hacktoberfest with RLadies, PyLadies, PyData
    - Meetup in Mexico was successful (although oversubscribed)
    - Running future similar events
    - Share materials and experience re: connecting different groups

**ACTIONS**
- TA blog post on recent (and upcoming) events

### Conferences team
- LH has shared [draft of Best Practices for Disability Inclusion](https://github.com/forwards/event_best_practices/blob/master/DRAFTEventBestPracticesDisability.md)
    - Includes consideraton about social media, searching web, consultation with other disability groups. Separate considerations need to be made re: sensory, food-related, and mobility limitations.
    - General overview of accessibility of website for conferences, contact for accessibility, mention of accessibility services (because people may decide whether or not to attend based on that information)
    - See references for more information.
- TA has accessibility checklist she can share
- NT: Diversity Cookbook and NumFOCUS point of view
    - Working on version for shorter events (i.e. Meetups) for submission to cookbook
    - Tools and practices for creation of invitation text that is more inclusive and less biased
    - Re: useR! 2020, waiting for things to move forward; will provide another update in November
- NT to contacting Bioconductor for repository: Levi Waldron is chairing Bioconductor 2020 (and handled diversity efforts for 2019)

**ACTIONS**
- Follow up with Bioconductor (NT)
- Look into accessibility of useR! site (tools for automated checking or anectodally) (LH). See followup on #conferences [here](https://rforwards.slack.com/archives/C3XDAUESY/p1571762241015600).

### On-ramps team
- From team call, goal was set to encourage people to make their first pull request.
    - NC set up website designed for people to make a first pull request (step through process and add name to list of contributors, so change is simple and focus is on process).
    - Repo will be passed to Forwards to promote as optional exercise in workshops and to help participants get started contributing.
    - Encourage labeling of issues.

### Social media team
- LM: [Blog post](https://forwards.github.io/blog/2019/09/22/workshops-for-women-and-girls/) about workshops has been published. 
    - Another blog post is in progress on AfricaR initiatives, which will hopefully be published around November.  Coordinating with leads that KO has connected with (see #community thread [here](https://rforwards.slack.com/archives/C3WKWBDLG/p1569779072001500?thread_ts=1569778086.001400&cid=C3WKWBDLG))
- SN is handling another blog post with AL.
- Any issue tagged with social media team may be useful for coordination and follow-ups.

**ACTIONS**
- Wishlist: Develop LinkedIn page (SN or another volunteer)
    - AL [originally raised](https://rforwards.slack.com/archives/C3WKN5S4Q/p1570030592000700) as a way for members to increase visibility of volunteer experience on personal pages by tagging Forwards
    - [See ongoing discussion](https://rforwards.slack.com/archives/C3WKN5S4Q/p1571763948007700) on #social_media.
    - Considerations: (KO) consideration of branding strategy for visibility with sponsors and contacts. (NT) This may be a broader effort than just LinkedIn page.
- LM  and SN coordinate on creation of a blog posting schedule (i.e. once or twice a month, time dependent)
    - End-of-year post for each team on 2019 efforts

### Surveys
- Met in July, and most activity has been related to analysis of current year's useR! survey.

**ACTIONS**
- TK blog post about surveys (when time)

### Teaching
- Workshop in York in early 2020. [Application is open for scholarships.](https://forwards.github.io/edu/york/)
- Ongoing efforts to converting Teaching materials into more streamlined form. See HT's comment [here](https://github.com/forwards/workshops/issues/6#issuecomment-535848335)
    - Goals: overall better organization because it has been hard to keep track of new materials for each workshop
    - Better organization of Edu page on website for access to workshops, materials, teaching examples, links to other data sources, etc.
- AL [began blogdown]( https://forwards.github.io/workshops-guide/) about logistics of organizing a workshop.

### AOB
- Next slackathon will be November 8-11th.
