
# Core Team Meeting 2020-03-08 (EST) DRAFT

## Attendance

### Core team

Present: Emily Dodwell, Jonathan Godfrey, Kevin O'Brien  
Absent: Heather Turner

### Sub-teams

Present: Emma Rand
Absent:

## Minutes

### Core team/General

- (HT) I have updated the Forwards website so it now has a page for each team. It would be great for teams to consider how to develop their subsite - more background here: https://rforwards.slack.com/archives/C4A1SN31A/p1613925975005800.
- (HT) We are planning to put in a proposal to Google Season of Docs to create better documentation around organizing useR!. We are formulating our proposals here: https://github.com/rstats-gsod/gsod2021/wiki/table-of-proposed-documentation-projects. This is an opportunity to tie together Noa Tamir's HOWTOs, Liz Hare's event best practices and a few other bits and pieces that we have written or that we have worked on, such as the useR! survey. The project can potentially support multiple technical writers contributing to the documentation (subject to a total budget of $5000-$15000). There is also a role for volunteers to help on specific aspects, e.g. answering questions on topics they are knowledgeable about or reviewing documentation, and we can budget $500 per volunteer. I hope that one or two Forwards folk will at least volunteer and perhaps express interest in working as a technical writer. I will probably reach out to some folk directly, but let me know if you are interested! 

**ACTIONS**


### Community team

- KO: What is role of community team post-COVID? Reconsider/reorganize into other teams in light of MiR, etc.
    - Regional contact (i.e. Central Asia and India, Africa) that reflects changes in R world that have taken place dramatically over last 3-4 years
    - Landscape has moved into different space already
- JG: Number of times we set up a structure and don't have to keep it (goal for Forwards should be put ourselves out of business)
    - Opportunity for new groups to morph -- organizers move on to other things
    - What is job we're trying to accomplish to move on from?
    - More activity outside of North America and Europe -- how do you prove/get to the point that there's enough evidence to say the job is done? (Or done enough that it's moving along under own steam)
- KO: Following up with financial support -- funding and how to finance stuff is a key issue; market ourselves better towards foundations
    - Wrt standing down community team, establish money-making opportunity to see what we can get support for (can we bankroll/get a grant for set of workshops for set of workshops in e.g. Africa?)
- (HT) The IWD plan for R-Ladies Remote didn't work out, but we might still try to arrange an "R-Ladies takeover" of the Why R? webinars at a later date.
- (HT) Kevin O'Brien has been busy interviewing folk for the Why R? World series: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKMUlj_pGn_mpO0B7eH9ao6SbPg0eLWLG. This has been a chance to build on our connections, e.g. reconnecting with a couple of folk I met during the Southern Africa project. He is also trying to get a range of people to co-host, e.g. Tanja Kecojevic may help out here.
- KO: WhyR world series is series of interviews of R users around world to capture experience and point of view. Series of zoom calls -- 20 min recorded zoom calls.
    - Normalizes concept of people from e.g. Eswatini, Nigeria can give remote talks and show their work
    - Eswatini R user group commited to R workshop
    - Momentum behind talks; goal now is to increase production standards: give people a chance to rehearse (i.e. workshop questions, develop flow), panel of interviewers so there is more participation and contributions (i.e. members of community can contribute as interviewers and interviewees)
- JG is discussing responsive programming on a panel at useR! i.e. making sure that everyone is included in the community -- need to figure out what angle supposed to work from
    - Tools: Etherpad and slack have been difficult to engage with; tools that people have chosen haven't worked for me
    - Everything by way of R Markdown has dramatically improved
    - .tex that creates pdf doesn't meet ISO standards for accessibility

**ACTIONS**


### Conferences team

- (HT) Liz Hare is representing Forwards at the meeting with community partners on Friday. See https://rforwards.slack.com/archives/C3XDAUESY/p1614853023005200.

**ACTIONS**

- Give input to Liz before Friday (ALL)

### On-ramps team

Update from Heather:
- Saranjeet Kaur has started work on the R Developer Guide project. It's early days, but nice to be working with Michael Lawrence on this.
- A reminder of the link to join the R-devel Slack workspace: https://forwards.github.io/rcontribution/slack. We advertised a bit after the last R Journal release and have had a few new folks join. Still need to build up more interaction, but there has been some chat.
- Michael Lawrence and Michael Chirico are discussing ideas for improving the workflow for contributing translations, including a possible tutorial at useR!
- The next meeting of the R Contribution Working Group is this Friday.
- We're getting regular pull requests to the https://github.com/forwards/first-contributions repository, so that's clearly proving useful!

**ACTIONS**

- Follow up with R Foundation re potential contributor tutorial (HT)
- Follow up re potential translation contributor tutorial (ML and MC)
- Work on R Dev guide (SK)


### Social media team

- (HT) We did our best to support #BlackInStats week - it didn't seem quite as big as #BlackInData, but maybe it is more niche!

**ACTIONS**


### Surveys

**ACTIONS**


### Teaching
Hello y'all!
We (Mine and I) did three online workshops in Feb:

    Packages in a nutshell http://bit.ly/pkg-dev-1

    Setting up your system  http://bit.ly/pkg-dev-2 

    Your first package  http://bit.ly/pkg-dev-3


**ACTIONS**
Next tasks are to write  Package documentation and Unit testing modules.
Review the five modules
Deliver and record the full run
Disseminate and encourage so others use/deliver

### AOB
- Next Core Team Meeting will be Monday, April 12th from 10-11:30 am EST.
