# Core Team Meeting 2018-08-22

## Attendance

### Core team

Present: Heather Turner (HT), Emily Dodwell (ED), Tanja Kecojevic (TK), Julie Josse (JJ), David Smith (DS)
Absent: Tania Allard (TA), Jenny Bryan (JB), Di Cook (DC), Jasmine Dumas (JD), Jonathan Godfrey (JG), Isabella Gollini (IG), Michael Lawrence (ML), Kevin O'Brien (KO), Augustina Ragwitz (AR)

## Minutes

### Core team/General
- July slackathon minutes have been updated
- Code of Conduct update: JJ and HT met to incorporate feedback (gathered during useR! 2018 and eRum) and edit draft
    - There are currently differences in how best to handle more serious offenses; goal is to recommend general protocol to identify and respond to issues (make CoC less prescriptive)
    - New draft [here](https://github.com/forwards/foundation/tree/master/anti-harassment_policy).
- Incorporation of photos throughout website, both informal and in action shots (e.g. groups of members at conferences and workshops):
    - Remind members to take photos at workshops and conferences for inclusion.  There will be a private Github repo with submissions that represent a selection pool.
    - Also nice for inclusion with news items, Twitter, Facebook, blog, etc.
    - About page:
        - Photos were taken at useR! 2018, but would require permission of professional photographer to use
        - Solicit photo submissions for About page (guidelines re: size, portrait, type as professional headshot, etc.); might be difficult to organize with larger membership, so this is a longer-term goal.
    - Education page:
        - DC may have pictures from workshop(s) for Edu page update.  Is permission required/granted by individuals in it to publish on website?
- New etherpad has not worked at all times across all devices. Prior to publishing link in the future, send to a few members for testing.

**ACTIONS**
- HT is interested in any suggestions you may have for new members of the R Foundation.  Please get in touch with her to nominate someone. (ALL)
- Submit membership photos from conferences and workshops (ALL)
- Creation of private Github repo for photo submissions (?)

### Community team
- Upcoming Events:
    - [Diversity in Tech Data Workshop](https://ti.to/coding-grace/diversity-in-data-workshop-2018) September 22nd in Dublin (registration not yet available)
    - [DSC4](https://datasciconference.com/) September 18-19th in Belgrade
        - TK can give Forwards talk. See [JJ's talk](https://github.com/forwards/presentations/tree/master/RSummit2018) from R Summit 2018.
    - TK is organising a [tech workshop](http://klikr.rbind.io/) on September 15.
- DS: R Consortium community survey
    - [Slides](http://blog.revolutionanalytics.com/downloads/Voice%20of%20R%20Community.pdf)
    - [PowerPoint](https://1drv.ms/p/s!AmZ4s9FA7xRJjmFqUleJ3YvfEx6I)
    - [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b_wOnvS1WcA)

**ACTIONS**
- Creation of new Community section on Data page: https://github.com/forwards/tasks/issues/40 (HELP WANTED)

### Conferences team
- R Consortium handled closed captioning of videos from useR! There is an additional setting that enables incorporation of community contributions to correct captions, but it must be turned on.  [More here]( https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/6052538?hl=en-GB.a).

### On-ramps team
(No items of business at this time.)

### Social media team
(No items of business at this time.)

### Surveys
- JJ is still happy to complete the package survey.
- useR! 2017/2018 surveys: how to progress?
    - link to 2017 data etc: https://github.com/forwards/surveys/tree/master/useR2017

### Teaching

- NYC workshop scheduled for Saturday, October 27th
- JR, ED, and DC met at JSM to discuss organization and logistics. Planning process will be documented for future workshop organizers.
- JR and ED to teach workshop centered around NYC transporation data, with support from AT&T colleagues and R Ladies.
- Aiming for ~20 students (high school girls in grades 11 and 12)
- JR created information landing page as NYC sub-page to Education page; will provide direct link to Google Doc application. Currently in Github update-edu branch to be published this week.
- Will coincide with update to Edu page (mission statement, clear section of upcoming workshops with list of past, CoC, link to materials, etc.)
- Yes to hex stickers from Hadley! Can be sent to ED.

### AOB
- Next Slackathon will be weekend of September 28th-October 1st.
