*DRAFT*

# Core Team Meeting 2019-06-27

## Attendance

### Core team

Present: Heather Turner (HT), Angela Li (AL), Tanja Kecojevic (TK),  Emily Dodwell (ED), Isabella Gollini (IG), Noa Tamir (NT), Kevin O'Brien (KO)
Absent: Tania Allard (TA), Jenny Bryan (JB),Jonathan Godfrey (JG), Julie Josse (JJ), Michael Lawrence (ML), Augustina Ragwitz (AR)

## Minutes

### Core team/General
- About page has been updated with 2019 Membership
- Additions: AL stepped up as teaching team lead; RM joined as teaching team member, NT moved to conferences team lead
- DC, DS, stepped down as team lead, JD stepped down from taskforce
- Core team vacancies: Social media, Surveys, On-ramps. 
- Facebook group moderator - need someone to take over from GM

**ACTIONS**
- Goals for groups? Aim to do at useR!
- Let other members know on slack when you're planning on attending a local conference/meetup so there may be an opportunity to meet in person.

### Community team

- satRday Berlin 
- satRdays in underserved places, e.g. Africa, Indonesia, Nepal.

**ACTIONS**


### Conferences team
- (NT) UseR CoC: 
    - aligned with Organisers. They would like ot have a 2nd Forwards volunteer. I have a few non-Forwards options from the Buddies sign-up. It would be great to get a contact from LGBTQ+ R leads, I would like to have a diverse team of responders
    - waiting for organisers feedback on active CoC enforcement vs. passive only 
- UseR Buddies:
    - We have 10 volunteers and I have all the details for the meeting from HT. I will send invites to scholars and buddies tomorrow 
    - did you see the update here: https://github.com/forwards/conferences/blob/master/user2019_plans.md ?
    - Flyer
- Support for conferences organisers:
    - After useR, I'm planning to expand the CoC resources available to organisers, by providing blue-prints on how to set up: response team, active response scheme, passive response scheme, and maybe offer "office hours" to support preparation and reporting +1 this would be super helpful - provide the resources for people to organize effective teams, I'm also on the useR 2020 team, so I want to get some info from you all
- useR! 2020: Jesse Mostipak, Katherine Simeon and other local St Louis folk involved in diversity/CoC issues.
- send agenda items for cross-comunity meeting

### On-ramps team
(No items at this time.)

### Social media team
(No items at this time.)

### Surveys

- issues with running survey at useR! Local organisers have stipulate the following:
 - must run on our own server
 - must be anonymous
 - all questions optional
 - meet GDPR requirements stating basis for legal processing etc
 - remove ethnicity question (not legal/acceptable in France)
 HT will ask RFCC if they will pay for hosted LIMESurvey instance. Even with aggregating response options, cannot make survey completely anonymous, so need to meet requirements enabling people to rectify/delete their data. Difficult to implement, but can ask people to note down their respondent number to enable them to request changes in separate form. Also need to minimise data collected, so will need to change some questions, e.g. ask for age in 5-year bands vs age in years.

**ACTIONS**


### Teaching
- Blog post draft: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yKcVYBcm8wkd3ZbUbwPDHiEkjkCONyri-GcACvp6KWo/edit
    - Missing workshop locations?

**ACTIONS**
- Make materials known to R-Ladies groups to be adopted and used in workshops -- capture up-to-date and good practices
- Goal of 3 package workshops in the US (AL to help with initiative: idea -- NYC, Chicago, somewhere on West Coast?)
- High school workshop in Europe? Find contacts there who may do so
- (KO) klikr.rbind.io initiative (in Serbia) for youngsters age 13-18 years.

**ACTIONS**
- TK will read blog draft and propose addition if her workshops fit in. Otherwise she could write a separate blog post.

### AOB
- Next Slackathon 20-21 or 27-28 July
