# Core Team Meeting 2022-06-13

## Attendance

### Core team

Present: gwynn, Mine Cetinkaya-Rundel, Liz Hare, Andrea Sanchez-Tapia, Yani, Di
Absent: Heather Turner

## Minutes

### Core team/General
- Soon we will be updating all the teams

## Accessibility
- ISC did not fund our grant for Alt-text in ggplot
- Liz talk at RLadies NYC on writing alt-text 

**ACTIONS**
- Checking with CSS or CCI, maybe Yani could help?

### Community team
* AfricaR WhatsApp group

**ACTIONS**
- French speaking SatRdays happening soon - please share on social media

### Conferences team
useR! around the corner in 8 days
- program is ready
- trying platform tomorrow
- lots of registration questions
- accessibility not as good
- captioning
- automatic translation into 20 languages!!!!!
- platform not accessible for screenreaders
- fee waivers are all accepted
- Thanks Yani for finding funding for captions
- hopeful that next year will be more accessible
- must fix accessibility with Linux foundation
- around 1000 people registered, last year 1800 in slack space
- Next year
- up to R Foundation
- one proposal from Africa if not accepted, global team
R Foundation does not work on useR!, besides to say that the R logo can be used
- R Consortium and RStudio getting this going
- the difficult part is transferring one team to the other, different group every year
- Things having getting better since 2016, website stored on RFoundation website
- standardize what every team should do
- strategy to help each other so organizing team listens
- pass this one to the RFoundation
- it's the experience of the people that are there
- Australian conference only had 700 people
- RFoundation does not fund useR!
- Forwards reccommendations really pushed this forward: https://gitlab.com/rconf/userknowledgebase

LatinR
- Call for abstracts is open and will be extended
- Online
- Call for tutorial - Portugues, Spanish, English - paid tutorials, symbolic fee to ensure attendance
- 1000 people last year
- Liz will help with accessibility

Knowledge base: https://gitlab.com/rconf/userknowledgebase

Get a report from the useR committee, 
RJournal can do special issues - articles in different languages

10 rules for inclusive conferences coming soon!

**ACTIONS**
- When ask for feedback say that "accessibility should be funded for the whole event and that some who worked on accessibility were not allowed to work on accessibility"
- AfricaR slack tell them to ask for a waiver

### On-ramps team
* [HT] Planning for Bug Barbecue event (https://contributor.r-project.org/events/bug-bbq). Still open for people to help out with facilitating, you can sign up here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xC4rL6aWSE-ITIPQME57XIw7-W7bfY0Lg8DocPLeZ-k/edit#gid=1261206945. Met with a representative from RStudio today who may be able to provide access to an RStudio Workbench with R-Devel pre-installed, making the workflow easier for novices.

**ACTIONS**
Share on the slack channel: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xC4rL6aWSE-ITIPQME57XIw7-W7bfY0Lg8DocPLeZ-k/edit#gid=1261206945

### Social media team

**ACTIONS**
Is this still a thing? 
Who has access to the social media accounts?
pinned slack message for who is in charge of each group

### Surveys
We had a meeting last slackathon and the LatinAmerican poll leads (Pao and Claudia) told us about their progress, we have plans to send useR! 2022 the survey

useR! 2022 survey - build a survey and make changes

**ACTIONS**
Blog post to come soon from Pao and Claudia

Start a useR! 2022 survey
- online, hybrid part
- first time attendent, very different answers from others
- Finish 2021 blog post

### Teaching
Neither Emma or Mine have given more workshops, RLadies chapters are copying the package development workshops. As RForwards or others who want to teach...

**ACTIONS**
Blog post about how to teach the package development workshop

### AOB
- Membership survey goes out in July with new Doodle polls for meeting availability.
