# Forwards Team Meeting (EMEA) 2022-01-27

Team co-leads: Heather Turner (chair), gwynn sturdevant (Accessibility), Kevin O'Brien (Community)

Team members:
    
## Minutes

### Core team/General

- From previous meeting
    - No action on ideas around diversity hiring (list of resources: https://github.com/forwards/Community/blob/master/diversity_hiring.md, idea of holding a panel)
    - Potential to upgrade R Foundation/Forwards Zoom to webinar version
       - Currently paying for Zoom Pro cost: £119.90/year/user
       - Would cost £912/year - not sure that extra cost is justified for Forwards activities.
- Palantir + Posit issue
    - Seems the "partnership" isn't a much a deal as press release suggested.
    - Palantir were a sponsor of rstudio::conf in the past, which isn't so good.
    - In the end out of scope for Forwards as Posit is a private company.
- Creating Mastodon account
    - Some possibility of R project running server for a few R project accounts: not there yet.
    - Meanwhile: set up on https://hachyderm.io/about? Can transfer account later. Could be good to set up and evolve.

### Accessibility 

- gwynn in touch with JJ allaire about some of the accessibility issues.

### Community team

- R Project Developer Sprint: Aug 30 to Sep 1, will be announcing in coming weeks.
- satRday London comin up in April: https://www.jumpingrivers.com/blog/satrdays-london/, 22nd April 2023
    - Kevin probably going. Ella Kaye and/or Heather will probably go as well. Informal meetup night before?
    - Workshop the Friday? London South Bank University at Elephant & Castle
    - Rainbow R? Package Dev workshop? Work on teaching materials? AfricaR UK?
- potential satRdays Paris with Mouna Belaid. Try getting in touch with Julie Josse?
- gwynn plans to get in touch with Anelda regarding AfricaR.

ACTIONS

 - Will gather ideas for pre/post satRday of Forwards Slack

### Conferences team

- useR! 2023 
    - Expected to be announced as hybrid event, probably late July
    - Opportunity to tie in with local groups
    - Could share article on inclusive practices, offer to help if we can
    - Do have some opportunity to feed in ideas for program committee, keynotes etc (some names suggested in meeting)

ACTIONS

- Will gather further ideas for useR! PC/keynotes on Forwards Slack 

### On-ramps team

- RCWG: met last week, see notes here: https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/blob/main/team_minutes/2023-01-20.md

### Surveys

### Teaching
