# Core Team Meeting 2020-12-14 (EST)

## Attendance

### Core team

Present: Emily Dodwell (ED)  
Absent: Heather Turner (HT), Emma Rand (ER)

## Minutes

### Core team/General

- (HT) Di Cook has asked Forwards to write a news report for the next R Journal issue (to be released in the new year). I will try to write a draft this week, let me know if you have any items to add. I guess it should only cover the period since the last journal issue (officially June 2020), but could look forward. Some initial thoughts
    - A report of the diversity panel at useR! 2020
    - Involvement with plans for useR! 2021
    - News about R Contribution working group - possibly link to sign-up page for new Slack group if I can it get ready (see below).
    - News about Latin American survey (could just be report that it happened, with response rate - I talked with Pao and Claudia about them possibly writing a more formal report for the R Journal, which I guess would go in June 2021 issue).
    - Plans for online tutorials in 2021? If we don't want to be tied to this, we could hold back here and report afterwards - it seems Di would like us to report news in each issue.
- (ALL) Upcoming meetings/events? News items for website?

### Community team
(No items at this time.)

### Conferences team
- (HT) useR! 2021 has a great line-up of keynotes, which will be announced in the New Year. Tutorial submission will be opening very soon today/tomorrow! When you see announcements please help spread the word so that we can encourage wide participation. There has already been one CoC incident on the Twitter account (targeted harassment), which was handled very well but spurred the team to get better procedures in place (e.g. a private channel on Slack for the coc response team). They are interested in CoC training and this is something we might discuss further with Noa Tamir, assuming she returns from leave as expected in January.

### On-ramps team

- (HT) We have set up a new Slack workspace for the R Contribution Working Group: https://join.slack.com/t/r-devel/shared_invite/zt-iyb6t1hg-9Qc0_Ky3AKI3JLX2bAvlEA. Kara Woo and Silvia Canel√≥n have agreed to join me as admins of the Slack (for 1 year renewable). We will enforce the code of conduct, which we adapted from the useR! one (https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/blob/master/mentorship/slack_coc.md). The next stage is to create a landing page with the CoC and a join button - I hope to do this before the end of the year, with a simple GitHub pages site. Then in the New Year, we can advertise more widely and get a bit more conversation going.
- (HT) The R Foundation have agreed to fund Saranjeet Kaur to work on an initial draft of the R Developer Guide (https://github.com/forwards/rdevguide), in a 12-week project starting in February. She will be supervised by Michael Lawrence and myself, though other members of R Core are willing to help with the project. We hope it will produce a more user-friendly guide to contributing to R (e.g. by triaging bug reports or proposing patches), that will be maintained by the community, especially members of the R Contribution Working Group.

### Social media team
(No items at this time.)

### Surveys
- (HT) The Latin American survey had a great response - 970 responses! We have discussed plans for analysis and dissemination (see #surveys-team)

### Teaching

- (HT) Di is working on a grant proposal for a series of data vis workshops in Australia (see #teaching-team if Di not present to explain further!)
- (ER):
    - Work on package development modules is on going: https://github.com/forwards/workshops/tree/master/package-dev-modules
    - Emma and Mine are delivering three of the package development modules in the week commencing February 1st. Exact timing TBC as Uni teaching timetables are not yet confirmed. The three modules are: Packages in a nutshell, Setting up your system, Your first package
    - Eventbrite events are created will be published when timing confirmed
    - We have a Forwards xaringan template (by Mine): https://github.com/forwards/fwdbrand/tree/master/inst/rmarkdown/templates/xaringan
    -  We have module template based on the above (by Emma):  https://github.com/forwards/workshops/blob/master/package-dev-modules/slides/module-template.Rmd   
-(ER) We plan to create the infrastructure (bookdown?) for a curated list of intro materials that we think are good for teaching for those with and without teaching experience. Materials included would be ready to roll out with minimal preparation, shortish - can be delivered in a code club/user group, have full notes and instructions for teaching.

### AOB
- Next Core team meeting will be Monday, January 11th from 10-11:30 am EST.
