# Core Team Meeting 2018-06-18

## Attendance

### Core team

Present: Heather Turner (HT), Emily Dodwell (ED), David Smith (DS), Julie Josse (JJ), Tanja Kecojevic (TK), Auggy Ragwitz (AR)
Absent: Tania Allard (TA), Jenny Bryan (JB), Di Cook (DC), Jasmine Dumas (JD), Jonathan Godfrey (JG), Isabella Gollini (IG), Michael Lawrence (ML), Kevin O'Brien (KO)

## Minutes

### Core team/General

- Team updates (compared to About page, some old news!):
    - Gina G stepped down as team lead, now ordinary member community team
    - Tracy S stepped down as team lead, now ordinary member social media team
    - Madlene H and Carolin S stepped down as team lead, now ordinary member survey team
    - Auggy new co-lead social media team
    - Tania new co-lead community team
    - Tanja new co-lead surveys team
    - David Meza new member (which is primary team: surveys, on-ramps?)
    - Maelle to swap to on-ramps team
    - Liz K joined social media team
    
- R Summit
    - Attending: DS, JG, DC, JJ, JF (others?)
    - 30 minute presentation with updates (workshops, surveys) to R Foundation by another Forwards member (perhaps DC or JJ since HT will be unable to attend)
    - Gather contributions/ideas from Core team to Github - send link via email (July 3rd deadline)
    - Meet up for other Forwards members

- Next slackathon dates? July 20-23rd (after useR, so we can get updates from that)

- Etherpad: Discussed at R Foundation meeting, Simon Urbanek is going to set up alternative with private pads (ED will ask for update)

**ACTIONS**
- New email call for About page information and review of team roles
    - Note that Heather has had individual conversations with certain members, and others who would like to revisit their contributions can reply to email or speak with her in person at useR.
    - Perhaps send prior to useR conference and update after.

### Community team
(No items of business at this time)

### Conferences team
- Code of Conduct: R Foundation policy is currently that conferences should have Code of Conduct (useR 2015 page is referenced)
    - Recent events suggest recommendations for anti-harrassment would be useful
    - Considerations for handling of issues that extend beyond individual conference: longer term ban on repeat offenders, improvement of reporting mechanisms (i.e. after conference if it was a one-time event)
    - In repo on GitHub for discussion, in person conversations at eRum conference. JJ has already made edits based on feedback.
- Current status: JJ looking at Python CoC (which was recently reviewed), ISBA policy
    - Have any changes been made to JSM after rumblings on Twitter?
    - Word of caution that this is a policy, not a legally enforceable document. This is a perception that we need to address because it is barrier to implementation

**ACTIONS**
- Thoughts, comments, and suggestions welcome if people can take a look at Github repo. This is a good conversation to have at R Summit (work out controversial points and pointers for addressing them).

### On-ramps team
- Good ideas for progress recorded on task list

### Social media team
- AR is onboarding and prioritizing tasks via communications with HT
- Blog:
    - Highlighting UseR groups in Latin America/Africa/etc -  https://github.com/forwards/tasks/issues/38
- Twitter: 
    - Due to changes in team structure, need to re-think accountability of the Twitter communications
    - Need to coordinate multiple posters (tactical response process for an immediate issue): AR and DS to discuss

**ACTIONS**
- Look into adding prior presentations to website? (May require additional website section, which should be addition to task repo)

### Surveys
- Preparation for useR! 2018 survey
    - TA is working with Nujcharee
    - Revision of questions and member of local organizing team is helping with Survey Monkey
- Conscious of new data regulation protections in EU and clearer about intentions of data collection (and what happens to it afterwards)

### Teaching
- ED and JR touched base at R Ladies Meetup last Thursday -- we are looking into outreach avenues for NYC high school girls for workshop at AT&T Labs later this year.
- Would slack channel be best to connect with NT and JD (and anyone else interested in getting involved)?
- ED will be submitting grant proposal for AT&T WEPAN funding (amount TBD)

**ACTIONS**
- Look into hosting location ability to provide laptops/desktops
- Decide application criteria
