# Core Team Meeting 2021-09-27

## Attendance

### Core team

Present: Emily Dodwell  
Absent: 
    
### Sub-teams

Present: Andrea Sanchez-Tapia, Zane Dax  
Absent: 

## Minutes

### Core team/General
- Recordings from August All-Hands Meetings are available here: Part 1 (https://drive.google.com/file/d/1JyAdr_InR71stwAkYZ1kgrmOlIZteP5f/view?usp=sharing) and Part 2 (https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jGDCXDaAAXY1AMQbGt-iPmh3y55dyIzg/view?usp=sharing)
- Minutes: https://github.com/forwards/meetings-public/tree/master
- (HT from All-Hands): R Dev Guide https://forwards.github.io/rdevguide/ (inspired by Python developer guide) to provide user-friendly introduction to contributions (identifying bug, introducing patch, working with R Core Members on other projects)
- Saranjeet was funded by R Foundation to provide first draft (March-June); presented at useR! 2021
- Hope to get a few more people to read it and get feedback (initial feedback from members of working group)
- (HT from All-Hands): R Contribution Working Group
- Happy to have people propose ideas even if not available to contribute much time to working on it (https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/blob/master/ideas_incubator.md)
- Comments and questions -- questions on slack (https://forwards.github.io/rcontribution/slack), next working group meeting in September


**ACTIONS**
- Create GitHub issue for synchronization of group working on disability access

### Community team
(No items at this time.)

### Conferences team
(No items at this time.)

### On-ramps team
(No items at this time.)

### Social media team
(No items at this time.)

### Surveys
- Andrea worked on useR! 2021 survey with Paola and Heather. Onboarding to Forwards via that
- Working on preliminary analysis of 2021 survey -- how to handle transfer of useR! owning to Forwards?
    - Currently in private repo
- Zane had shared question in slack about handling of sex/gender in the survey
    - Drop down options
    - AST: Received previous questions and modified some; question about LGBTQ or not -- concern was about anonymity (privacy if N was too low); still getting acquainted with survey and replies and how to handle
    - ZD: I submitted a presentation to septembRSE on minorities & diversities and did some research on twitter users who have a pride flag & pronouns. The number of LGBTQ people is low.

**ACTIONS**
- Andrea: How to handle survey location online?
- Next steps will be for group to touch base (maybe November?)

### Teaching
- Mine and Emma ran Forwards package workshop
    - Series of 4 workshops: https://bit.ly/pkg-dev-1, https://bit.ly/pkg-dev-2, https://bit.ly/pkg-dev-3, https://bit.ly/pkg-dev-4
    - Each workshop 1 hr -- people seemed to enjoy this structure since it doesn't end up taking too many hours on any given day
    - We don't currently have plan to re-offer, but we could do another round in the Winter or Spring
    - We should probably blog about it so others know these materials are available to be reused by others to give similar workshops -- what would be a good venue?

### AOB
- Next Core team meeting will be 2021-10-15.
