# Slackathon 2020-05-15 to 2020-05-18 (Draft)

## Attendance

### Core team

Present: Heather Turner (HT), Noa Tamir (NT), Angela Li (AL), Emily Dodwell (ED), 
Absent: Tania Allard (TA), Jenny Bryan (JB), Jonathan Godfrey (JG), Isabella Gollini (IG), Julie Josse (JJ), Tanja Kecojevic (TK), Michael Lawrence (ML), Angela Li (AL), Shakirah Nakalungi (SN), Kevin O'Brien (KO), Heather Turner (HT)

### Sub-teams
Present: Liz Hare (LH), Anna Vasylytsya (AV), , Joyce Robbins (JR)
Absent: Lorna Maria Aine (LA), Damiano Cerasuolo (DCerasuolo), Di Cook (DCook),, Madlene Hamilton (MH), Nujcharee Haswell (NH), Zhian Kamvar (ZK), Liz Kellogg (LK), Joslynn Lee (JL), Florencia Mangini (FM), Imke Mayer (IMayer), David Meza (DM), Ileena Mitra (IMitra), Ritwik Mitra (RM), Jesse Mostipak (JM), Richard Ngamita (RN), Wenfeng Qin (WQ), Emma Rand (ER), Dorris Scott (DScott), David Smith (DSmith),  Charlotte Wickham (CW), Yizhe Xu (YX)

## Minutes

### Core team/General

- (HT) We welcome Anna Vasylytsya to the survey team. She will be working on updating the Packages section of the Data page with data from a survey by Gustavo Pinto and Igor Wiese.
- (HT) KO raised the idea of selling the Forwards/AfricaR hex stickers we have left over from the Forwards Southern Africa project, to raise money for Forwards/AfricaR. Discuss on #branding.
    - Decide it is better to offer the stickers as perks for donations. This might be done via Open Collective to avoid need to set up bank account/formal structure.
- (HT/AL/ED) Proposal for regular meeting structure each quarter to maximise involvement while minimising admin: 
     - Month 1 - Time A: fixed day at some fixed time New York 10AM - 4PM (early for other parts of US, afternoon/evening for Europe/Africa)
     - Month 2: slackathon on fixed week of the month (e.g. 3rd weekend)
     - Month 3 - Time B: fixed day at some fixed time New York 4PM - 10PM (afternoon/evening for US, morning for New Zealand/Australia)
    ED will set up polls to identify preferred times. ED will be the minimum link between the meetings, HT will probably chair Time A meetings, AL Time B meetings.
- (HT) Over next month we will ask people to review their role on the taskforce - please respond with one of the predefined options! We will advertise for new members/team leaders as required. Then in July/August each team 
  should set up a team meeting to review their goals for the next 6 months/year.

**ACTIONS**

- Ask R Foundation if okay to apply for Open Collective account as Forwards (HT)



### Community team

**ACTIONS**


### Conferences team

- (NT) Working on current virtual useR! 2020 tasks: speaker guidelines, and website accessibility 
- (NT) useR! oragniser meeting notes were shared via our slack (they have names and emails so I can't distribute them too publicly)
- (NT) More useR! related tasks are expected to start in the coming weeks, I will communicate as much as possbile but please join the useR! organiser slack if you want to volunteer activly as most of hte communication is happening there. Join here: https://join.slack.com/t/usereuropeanhub/shared_invite/zt-dy0gehd3-LvzlsxVUxh_NidPG6DlcTw

**ACTIONS**


### On-ramps team

**ACTIONS**


### Social media team

**ACTIONS**


### Surveys

**ACTIONS**
- (AV) read the "How Do Scientists Develop Scientific Software? An External Replication" paper. 


### Teaching

**ACTIONS**
I am thinking about ideas for offering online R workshops this summer. Contact me on Slack or by email (jtr13@columbia.edu) if you're interested in coordinating. (JR)


### AOB
- Next slackathon will be in July.  Vote for your preferred weekend via this Doodle poll: https://doodle.com/poll/imr3x585n5ca9q73
