# Slackathon 2018-07-20

## Attendance

### Core team

Present: Emily Dodwell (ED), Heather Turner (HT)

Absent: Tania Allard (TA), Jenny Bryan (JB), Di Cook (DC), Jasmine Dumas (JD), Jonathan Godfrey (JG), Isabella Gollini (IG), Julie Josse (JJ), Tanja Kecojevic (TK), Michael Lawrence (ML), Kevin O'Brien (KO), Augustina Ragwitz (AR), David Smith (DS)

### Sub-teams

Present: MaÃ«lle Salmon (MS)

Absent: Stella Bollmann (SB), Carolin Strobl (CS), Rudolf Debelak (RD), Andrea Foulkes (AF), John Fox (JF), Gina Griffin (GG), Madlene Hamilton (MH), Liz Kellogg (LK), Joslynn Lee (JL), David Meza (DM), Gina Merchant (GM), Ileena Mitra (IM), Wenfeng Qin (WQ), Joyce Robbins (JR), Tracy Shen (TS), Noa Tamir (NT), Charlotte Wickham (CW), Hadley Wickham (HW), Yizhe Xu (YX)

## Minutes

### Core team/General

- (HT) Forwards now has a [data privacy policy](https://forwards.github.io/docs/privacy_policy/) please read and check that you are in line with this - particularly anyone who has worked on survey data, or **collects any data via forms** on behalf of Forwards.
- (JJ, by email) JJ gave a talk about Forwards at the R Summit (pre-useR! 2018 meeting). She has put her [slides on GitHub](https://github.com/forwards/presentations/blob/master/RSummit2018/RSummit2018.Rmd) (slightly edited by HT post event). JG and DS also attended. (JG, by email) JG  enjoyed participating in R Summit and will assist on project to update R project website.
- (JJ, by email) There was some discussion on code of conduct policies at the R Summit and the R Foundation business meeting held prior to useR! 2018. JJ is taking the points raised on board as she prepares a final version of our recommendations for an updated anti-harassment policy to present to the R Foundation.
- (HT) John Verzani (Editor-in-Chief) of the R Journal asked if we planned to submit anything for the Forwards column. HT said we would probably submit something on the package survey (c.f. [task #17](https://github.com/forwards/tasks/issues/17) or the workshops for Issue 2 (December).
- (HT) DS gave a talk at useR! 2018 on the R Consortium community survey [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b_wOnvS1WcA). Willing to share plots and potentially arrange for someone to access raw data to enable us to add new Community section to Data page of website.
- (HT) RainbowR (group for LGBTQ+ R folk) has stepped up a gear and now has a Twitter account and an open slack channel (subject to CoC) see [twitter post with link to join slack](https://twitter.com/R_LGBTQ/status/1019396405838925824).
- (HT) R Consortium has initiated a Diversity and Inclusion Working group. JB is the official link for Forwards, by KO also attended first meeting.

**ACTIONS**

- Read data privacy policy, check forms and data storage are in line (ALL)
- Finalise anti-harassment policy recommendations (JJ)
- Plan Forwards column (if package survey, JJ plus collaborators; if workshops, teaching team plus collaborators)
- Add new Community section to wbesite [task #40](https://github.com/forwards/tasks/issues/40) (HELP WANTED)

### Community team

**ACTIONS**


### Conferences team

- (HT) demographic questions were updated with help from TA, JJ and Nujcharee Haswell. Jessie Roberts combined these with the useR! 2018 feedback questions. So far they've had 50% response rate and plan to close the survey on Monday 23 July. There were a few issues with the conversion from plain text to survey form, need to allow more time for testing next time! This task will now pass on to the survey team to take on the analysis.
- (HT) following suggestion by KO we will look into the possibility of closed captioning at useR! 2019. HT added a TODO to [tasks #28]([task #40](https://github.com/forwards/tasks/issues/28).

**ACTIONS**

- Check useR! 2018 have enabled community contributions to captioning (HT)

### On-ramps team

**ACTIONS**



### Social media team

**ACTIONS**


### Surveys

* useR! 2018 survey 

**ACTIONS**


### Teaching

- MS worked on the workshop certificate generation with help from HT.
- HT presented short version (~1.5 hours) of package workshop at Cardiff satRday (not specifically targeted at under-represented groups, but was a diverse group). [Slides](https://github.com/forwards/workshops/tree/master/Cardiff-satRday) can be used in combination with [R Studio Cloud instance](https://rstudio.cloud/project/38916). The RStudio Cloud instance can also be used for the full workshop, though hadcol project should be changed to the master branch - probably better to set up new instance to avoid confusion.
- DC gave a talk on our workshops project funded by the R Consortium [video](https://youtu.be/kt-gHaHKjZ8?t=394).

**ACTIONS**


### AOB
- Next slackathon will be in September 2018.  Vote for your preferred weekend via the survey in Slack: https://rforwards.slack.com/archives/C3XD6925A/p1532107966000339
