# Slackathon 2020-01-17 to 2020-01-20

### Core team

Present: Heather Turner (HT), Kevin O'Brien (KO), Angela Li (AL), Noa Tamir (NT)  
Absent: Tania Allard (TA), Jenny Bryan (JB), Emily Dodwell (ED), Jonathan Godfrey (JG), Isabella Gollini (IG), Julie Josse (JJ), Tanja Kecojevic (TK), Michael Lawrence (ML), Shakirah Nakalungi (SN), Florencia Mangini (FM)

### Sub-teams

Present: Dorris Scott (DSc), Nujcharee Haswell (NH)  
Absent:  Damiano Cerasuolo (DCerasuolo), Di Cook (DCook), Liz Hare (LH), Madlene Hamilton (MH), Zhian Kamvar (ZK), Liz Kellogg (LK), Lorna Maria Aine (LM), Joslynn Lee (JL),  Joyce Robbins (JR) Imke Mayer (IMayer), David Meza (DM), Ileena Mitra (IMitra), Ritwik Mitra (RM), Jesse Mostipak (JM), Richard Ngamita (RN), Wenfeng Qin (WQ), Emma Rand (ER), David Smith (DS), Samantha Toet (ST), Charlotte Wickham (CW), Yizhe Xu (YX)

## Minutes

### Core team/General

- (HT) Nic Crane has stepped down from Forwards has she doesn't have time to contribute right now. Thanks to Nic for her work supporting RainbowR and sharing her first contributions repo with Forwards!
- (HT) We have been asked by the useR! 2020 Munich hub for general support with their DEI and to help organize a DEI breakout session as part of the conference programme (schedule here: https://user2020muc.r-project.org/program/). People have volunteered as below, others welcome to join!
    - general help with DEI: TK
    - co-organize breakout session: HT, KO, TK, IMayer, JJ (maybe)
- (HT) I am running a crowdfunder for a series of workshop/meetups in Southern Africa: https://www.crowdfunder.co.uk/forwards-southern-africa-project-2020. The project has also received funding from the WhyR Foundation. Since the crowdfunder has raised >50% of target, we have enough funding to go ahead, but if we raise the full target (or beyond!) we can further support the local groups or similar events to help expand and build up the AfricaR community. Please help spread the campaign and let me know if you have contacts in Namibia/Eswatini/Botswana that I should reach out to.
- (HT) Please add any events you think Forwards should promote/be aware of here, e.g. events you will be at!
    - Forwards Southern Africa events: HT will provide links when the dates are confirmed/meetup pages set up etc.
    - [Use of R in Official Statistics](https://twitter.com/uRosconf/status/1174580475165380608?s=20) (uRos2020): 6-8 May 2020 in Vienna, Austria
 
**ACTIONS**
- Add to these minutes any progress that has been made since your team meeting (or the last slackathon) (ALL)
- Advertise events on Twitter (SN)
- Add events to Webpage (JR)

### Community team
- KO proposed [writeup of current status](https://github.com/forwards/community) of topics of interest that can be shared with community.  
- HT supports documenting the different activities of the team, which helps us to keep on top of things and also helps with on-boarding/communicating with other what we do. It will also be helpful when we give talks about Forwards.
- Initial topics: visa issues, sustainable travel, accessiblity issues
- See [full discussion on #community](https://rforwards.slack.com/archives/C3WKWBDLG/p1579247279000400)

**ACTIONS**
- Document team activities

### Conferences team
- (NT) I replied to useR hub Munich saying I will be able to help from May. I also reached out to 2 R-Ladies Berlin organisers to see if they want to help with the DEI session
- (NT) First how-to is [online](https://github.com/forwards/conferences/blob/master/How-to:%20Buddies%20and%20Diversity%20Scholars.md ), which was also shared with Jesse.
- (NT) I had one request from useR organisers for feedback on their mentorship sign up forms

**ACTIONS**
- (NT) Keep writing documentation to share with useR main and hubs

### On-ramps team
(No items at this time.)

### Social media team
(No items at this time.)

### Surveys
- NH will stick to same order as previous years for survey analysis so that is easier for people looking across years.

### Teaching
- AL has been relatively quiet wrt Teaching team, fall was busy, but is back and ready to contribute/onboard folks/restart projects!
- AL onboarded DS to the Teaching team on 1/14 via video call
- AL and DS are interested in co-teaching a Forwards workshop prior to SatRday Chicago (May 2020?), so DS can get experience organizing and teaching a workshop as a new member of the Forwards teaching team
    - This will familiarize DS with Forwards curriculum and help with suggesting changes to it moving forward
    - Goal is potentially for DS to teach Forwards workshop at own institution in Fall 2020
- HT suggests that we share current version of workshop bookdown on Teaching team page, added to Actions below
- AL would like to check in with current members of Teaching team and see if they are still interested in being involved - will aim to reach out to folks.

**ACTIONS**
- Look into adding LimeSurvey templates to workshop guide (HT)
- Consider taking survey text and converting into Markdown (AL)
- Include link to workshop bookdown to Teaching team page (AL)
- Add additional content to workshop bookdown (AL)

### AOB
- Next slackathon will be in March.  Vote for your preferred weekend via the [survey in Slack](https://rforwards.slack.com/archives/C3XD6925A/p1581087968000200).
