## 2024-05-13 Taskforce meeting

Present: Liz Hare, Heather Turner

### Community updates 

R-Ladies consultation on their re-branding.  Please read the [process for the discussion](https://github.com/rladies/community) and comment on the [issue](https://github.com/rladies/community/issues/10)

Updated timeline:

    April 22 - May 22: R-Ladies rebranding issue is soliciting feedback.

    May 23 - Jun 1: R-Ladies rebranding issue enters final comment period.

    June 2 - July 2: The R-Ladies Leadership team reviews the discussion and comes to a consensus on the final decision.


### useR! 

* Liz never heard back from useR! organizers regarding her feedback on the website, platform etc. Does not want to do for free any more. Needs more enforcement from the top that things need to be accessible and inclusive.

### R Contribution

* Could be good to think about another online event

    - Maybe like Turing Book Dash: do one or two session a day for a week.

    - Working groups that people can join, to work on different aspects. Or people can propose their own chapter.

    - Might need higher-level Zoom account to set up break-out rooms.

    - LatinR are online this year - possibly do in combination with that?


### Accessibility of LatinR

* Can ask Yani about this - does she know anything about platform etc?


